RPO/README.md, before:

# RPO
Relative Path Overwrite  
This is an attack based on the difference between Browser's and Server's understanding of relative URL.  

# Browser v.s. Server
使用者透過browser發出request給server，server收到request後先進行urldecode在response給使用者。  
1. 使用者要看哪個頁面由server給的response決定  
2. 頁面引入的```css/js```由browser決定  
因為browser不會進行urldecode因此類似```first%2findex.php```這種東西都會被當作檔名  
e.g.  
```https://example.com/first%2findex.php```  
server端：```https://example.com/first/index.php``` 因此server會回傳index.php無誤  
browser端：```first%2findex.php```沒做urldecode而被當作檔名  

# Exploit
CTF: 題目條件  
1. ```/inc/1/index.php?query=```  
這個頁面有個echo的功能，可是卻沒有xss漏洞，有做htmlentities之類的protection  
2. ```/inc/flag.php```  
這個頁面有用```1/```這樣的相對路徑引入css  
目標：**改變flag.php**的```background-color```  

**Exploit**:  
```/inc/1/%3fquery={}*{background-color%3Ared}%2f..%2f../flag.php```  
訪問上面這個連結就會發現flag.php背景顏色為紅色，目標達成!  
1. server端有做urldecode，所以response為flag.php  
2. browser端的css載入```/inc/1/?query={}*{background-color%3Ared}/../../1/```  
:sparkles: 這部分是exploit的重頭戲，這裏css載入的是帶有query的index.php，他會將index.php作為css syntax解析  
此外，css的容錯率也很高，會忽略無效語法，因此後面路徑剩下的部分都可以不用管！  

# Reference
1. [RPO攻击技术浅析](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzUxOTYzMzU0NQ==&mid=2247483692&idx=1&sn=ecd853bb5cb3e654a08c5214a1b951a2&chksm=f9f7eecace8067dc155346e5204f6eae0df9890af60777234e249021d577226c6989e73a107b&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  
2. [Kaibro web_ctf_cheatsheet](https://github.com/w181496/Web-CTF-Cheatsheet)

Commit message:

translate RPO part and sqlinj part

RPO/README.md, after:

# RPO
Relative Path Overwrite  
This is an attack based on the difference between Browser's and Server's understanding of relative URL.  

# Browser v.s. Server
1. what user will see depends on the response  
2. imported `css/js` depends on browser  
browser won't urldecode; therefore, `first%2findex.php` would be considered as filename  
e.g.  
`https://example.com/first%2findex.php`  
server side：`https://example.com/first/index.php` so, server side would response index.php to user  
browser side：`first%2findex.php` considered as filename due to not decoding  

# Exploit
CTF: we assume the following points   
1. `/1/index.php?query=`  
We can echo `query` to the page，but still can not make xss  
2. `/flag.php`  
this page uses relative path such as `<link href='1/'...>` to import css  
Our goal：change `background-color` of **flag.php**  

**Exploit**:  
`/1%2F%3fquery={}*{background-color%3Ared}%2f..%2f../flag.php`  
The link above is our exploit and the background color has been changed to red!  
1. server takes urldecode and get `/1/?query={}*{background-color:red}/../../flag.php`，so the response is `flag.php`  
2. browser import the css with `/1%2F%3Fquery={}*{background-color%3Ared}%2F..%2F../1/`  
:sparkles: This is the most important point of the exploit! What css loads here is the index.php with query，the part of `/1%2F%3Fquery={}*{background-color%3Ared}%2F..%2F..` would be ignored because the path can not be recognized, and browser will load the index.php with css syntax  
Why the xss in css can work here? Because css can ignore most of the error syntax，so the part of `%2F..%2F..` would be ignored！  

# Reference
1. [RPO攻击技术浅析](https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s?__biz=MzUxOTYzMzU0NQ==&mid=2247483692&idx=1&sn=ecd853bb5cb3e654a08c5214a1b951a2&chksm=f9f7eecace8067dc155346e5204f6eae0df9890af60777234e249021d577226c6989e73a107b&scene=21#wechat_redirect)  
2. [Kaibro web_ctf_cheatsheet](https://github.com/w181496/Web-CTF-Cheatsheet)
